---
layout: post
title: Goodbye 2018
date: 2018-12-31
categories: reflections
published: false
---

2018 has definitely been a big year for me and for that reason, I figured I should write up a little sappy end of year retrospective.

2018 was broken into three chapters for me.

---

## Chapter 1

From January to April, I was in school and largely in the same routine that I had been in since the previous September. I'll be candid and say that I was a bit in a depressive hole largely stemming from my failure for the second year in a row to run track and field team standard and secure my spot on the team. Looking back, I shouldn't have pushed people away as much as I did out of petty self pity and self imposed isolation. To be quite frank, I was just ashamed since I built up so much of my identity as a runner.

I hope I don't give the impression that I was a miserable mess for this entire term because that was not the case. My grades flourished and I made the Dean's term list for the first time! I had many successful interviews and landed myself and internship at a company for a position which at the time I thought I would love. I grew very close to my girlfriend (at the time) and we even managed to celebrate our two year anniversary together in my hometown. I made frequent trips home (very close to my university town) and spent lots of quality time with my mother who is away most of the year and was back for February and March.

In summary, the first chapter of the year started with incredible disappointment that resulted in me staying close to myself and those already around me. But overall, it was still quite successful.

---

## Chapter 2

The summer was wonderful. I had rebounded from my failures on the indoor track and was able to gather together enough motivation to put forward a summer track campaign. The times I ran itself never quite satisfy me but over the course of the summer, through having a more social environment at practices and meets, I slowly grew to relove the sport that has given me so much. One of my favourite memories of the year would have to be my brother and I in a Lyft in downtown Toronto on the way back from a meet trying not the throw up as a result of slight motion sickness mixed with incredible lactic pain.

My work didn't end up being all that I thought it would be. But I still ended up enjoying the heck out of it for the people I met and environment I was in. I made new friends and the fairly relaxed atmosphere at work allowed for summer to be fully enjoyed. I went to music festivals, cool conferences (got to hear Spike Jonze speak!!), biked downtown to cafe shops, experimented with my cooking, saw musicals, enjoyed sunsets, etc - it was everything I wanted.

The summer culminated in a European adventure that I had planned with my girlfriend (at the time). It was simply idyllic. Rome, Cinque Terre, Rapallo, Monaco, Nice, Barcelona, it was some of the best days of my life. The trip itself deserves its own post but to keep it brief, it was absolutely unreal, I felt completely free and happy...

...

.... but it made the beginning of the next chapter hurt all the more.

---

## Chapter 3

As you can probably guess, this next chapter (Sept-Dec) starts with heartbreak.

I was caught completely off guard and I was stunned. It was the last thing I saw coming and it freaking hurt.

> "separation is just always so brutal, you've shared all these moments with somebody and you've been so intimate and... you have to say we can't do that anymore" - Her: Love in the Modern Age

That's enough I'll say about it because the details aren't an appropriate topic for a public post.

They say that true friends are those who enter your life when the world has left. In contrast with my struggles in Chapter 1, this time, I shared the burden with those around me, anyone who offered to listen. I found myself connecting with long neglected friends and even strengthened newer ones. It was such an experience as I slowly found myself gaining strength through the support of others until now, I can truthfully say that I feel that I am in the best version of myself that I've ever been. I remember each and every person that helped me through this event in my life from midnight walks through empty streets chatting, to making me dinner, I cannot thank you enough.

While I was growing from a personal development side, I also found myself thriving in a multitude of different areas. I was playing music better than I ever had been and enjoying every moment of it. I was running much better and finally made the team standard!! I grew more social and took every happy moment as it came. In fact, over the term, I collected something of a "happy journal", every significant moment where I stopped and thought "I am so happy that this is my life", I wrote it down. Now, at the end of the year as I look back through this sticky note on my phone, I can't help but smile for all that happened in the final chapter of year.

In a term that had every right to cripple all areas of growth and be just a miserable experience, I am so amazed and proud that it was able to be spun into my best term yet. I am delighted at how happy I am with my life today and am hoping to carry that positive energy into 2019.

still to be finished and edited...
